Upgrading to 0.12 from 0.11
---------------------------

Note the new ExperimentalSnapshotMode feature. It is as experimental as it
says. Don't be surprised if it breaks your backups.

The feature requires the server to support the new commands required to manage
snapshots (0.12 or higher), but you can use bbackupd with an older server if
you don't enable it.

When you enable the snapshot mode, it will create a directory called
"snapshots" by default in the root directory of the store. You can rename this
directory with the SnapshotDirName option in bbackupd.conf. In this directory
a subdirectory will be created for each snapshot backup that runs. It is your
responsibility to delete snapshots that you no longer want. Otherwise the store
will fill up and backups will stop running.

If any snapshot directories exist, the most recent one will be cloned to make
a new snapshot each time a backup begins. If not, then any configured locations
that exist in the root directory will be cloned into the snapshot directory
instead. These old location roots (/home, /music etc) will no longer be updated
while ExperimentalSnapshotMode is enabled. You can delete them to reclaim some
space, probably around the time that you start deleting your old snapshots. The
only reason to keep them is in case you decide to stop using snapshots.

When you delete one of these directories (a location root or a snapshot), you
will automatically, immediately and permanently reclaim any space used by files
which are only referenced by that snapshot. Files still referenced by other
snapshots, directories or patches will not be reclaimed. The only way to undo
deletion of a snapshot is to restore the account from your backups. There is no
undelete command.

If you have any snapshots in the snapshots directory, and you disable
ExperimentalSnapshotMode, then your backups will most likely fail when they
try to modify multiply referenced objects, because it doesn't try to use the
new commands to make them modifiable again. So you should delete all your
snapshots if you enable, use and then disable this mode.
